feat(curriculum): add user configuration manager lab (#60845)
freeCodeCamp/freeCodeCamp: curriculum/challenges/english/25-front-end-development/lab-user-configuration-manager/684aaf9ec670c68d20efd0d0.md

---
id: 684aaf9ec670c68d20efd0d0
title: Build a User Configuration Manager
challengeType: 27
dashedName: build-a-user-configuration-manager
---

# --description--

In this lab, you will build a User Configuration Manager that allows users to manage their settings such as theme, language, and notifications. You will implement functions to add, update, delete, and view user settings.

Fulfill the user stories below and get all the tests to pass to complete the lab.

**User Stories:**

1. You should define a function named `add_setting` that takes a dictionary of settings and a tuple containing a key-value pair as parameters.

1. `add_setting` function should:
    

>    - Unpack the tuple into a key and value.

Author: If the unpacking isn't there, the function would fail itself. I have still added 2 more tests,  I hope it covers the gap.

>    - Unpack the tuple into a key and value.

Author: I've removed the requirement to unpack and the related tests.

   Theme: dark
   Notifications: enabled
   Volume: high
   ```

1. For testing the code, you should create a dictionary named `test_settings` that would store the following user configuration preferences in this format:

   ```md
    "theme": "light",
    "language": "English",
    "notifications": "enabled"
   ```

# --hints--

You should create a dictionary named `test_settings` and add some values to it.

```js
({
    test: () => runPython(`
        length = len(test_settings)
        assert length > 0
    `)
})
```

You should define a function named `add_setting`.

```js
({ test: () => assert(runPython(`_Node(_code).has_function("add_setting")`)) })
```

The `add_setting` function should take two parameters.

```js
({
    test: () => runPython(`
        import inspect
        sig = inspect.signature(add_setting)
        assert len(sig.parameters) == 2
    `)
})
```

`add_setting` should convert the key to lowercase.

```js
({
    test: () => runPython(`
        settings_in_test = {"theme": "light"}
        result = add_setting(settings_in_test, ("VOLUME", "high"))
        assert "volume" in settings_in_test
        assert "VOLUME" not in settings_in_test
    `)
})
```

> `add_setting` should return the error message `Setting [key] already exists! Cannot add a new setting with this name.` when the key already exists.

Reviewer: The expected message seems to be different from the one shown. I'm referring to the quotes around the key. This happens for other messages too.

Author: Changed `[key]` to `'[key]'` and `[value]` to `'[value]'` where applicable.

> `add_setting` should return the error message `Setting '[key]' already exists! Cannot add a new setting with this name.` when the key already exists.

Reviewer: Usually I'm in favor of using general messages in hints, but here it's a bit confusing. User stories say that the function should convert the key to lowercase but it's not clear where to use the lowercase key. So I would change this hint and the other hints similar to this for the other functions (or add additional hints) into something like this:
```suggestion
`add_setting({'theme': 'light'}, ('THEME': 'dark'))` should return the error message `Setting 'theme' already exists! Cannot add a new setting with this name.`.
```
Also, why not converting to lowercase the value as well?

Author: I have updated the existing hints to indicate the dictionary and values passed to functions.

---
id: 684aaf9ec670c68d20efd0d0
title: Build a User Configuration Manager
challengeType: 27
dashedName: build-a-user-configuration-manager
---

# --description--

Fulfill the user stories below and get all the tests to pass to complete the lab.

**User Stories:**

> 1. You should create a dictionary named `settings` that would store the following user configuration preferences in this format:

Reviewer 2: I feel like it needs to be clear that this dictionary is only here for testing purposes. 
Because looking at the final solution, this is added at the end only to test out the function.
maybe renaming it would be good. so something like `test_settings`

```md
 "theme": "light",
 "language": "English",
 "notifications": "enabled"
```

1. You should define a function named `add_setting` that takes a dictionary of settings and a tuple containing a key-value pair as parameters.

1. `add_setting(settings, (key, value))` should:

>    - Convert `key` to lowercase.

Reviewer 2: This might be confuse some campers. so far the user stories tell them that the second parameter is a tuple representing a key-value pair. I am not sure how many campers will know to unpack these values from the tuple and then set the key to lowercase.

has there been tons of practice with unpacking values so far in the python curriculum? if not, some might struggle with what `key` is in reference to. 

so maybe more needs to be added here so they know `key` was unpacked from that tuple?

Author: Looking at the content prior to this lab, I see there are lecture videos for tuples. The workshop just before it also uses key, value and tuples. I think this should be good to go, but we can still ask @fhsinchy to comment on this.

1. `update_setting(settings, (key, value))` should:
    
   - Convert `key` to lowercase.
   
   - If the `key` setting exists, update its value in the `settings` dictionary and return: `Setting 'key' updated to 'value' successfully!`
   
   - If the `key` setting doesn't exist, return `Setting 'key' does not exist! Cannot update a non-existing setting.`

1. You should define a function named `delete_setting` that takes the a dictionary of settings and a key as parameters.

1. `delete_setting(settings, key)` should:
    
   - Convert `key` to lowercase.
   
   - If the `key` setting exists, remove the key-value pair from `settings` and return `Setting 'key' deleted successfully!`
   
   - If the `key` setting does not exist, return `Setting not found!`

1. You should define a function named `view_settings` that takes a dictionary of settings as argument.

1. `view_settings(settings)` should:
   
   - Return `No settings available.` if the `settings` dictionary is empty.
   
   - If the dictionary contains any settings, return them formatted as follows:

```md
Current User Settings:
Theme: dark
Notifications: enabled
Volume: high

```

# --hints--

> You should create a dictionary named `settings` with the correct values.

Reviewer 2: this doesn't check for correct values.
I am able to pass with this code

```py
settings = {
    "not": "anything",
    "it": "something",
    "wassup": "else"
}
```

```js
assert.match(code, /settings\s*=\s*{[^}]*}/)
```

> You should define a function named `add_setting`.

Reviewer 2: This passes by only creating the `settings` dictionary.

<img width="953" alt="Screenshot 2025-06-16 at 9 37 23 AM" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/7227ca61-da04-4913-9a86-6c7438d86541" />

---
id: 684aaf9ec670c68d20efd0d0
title: Build a User Configuration Manager
challengeType: 27
dashedName: build-a-user-configuration-manager
---

# --description--

In this lab, you will build a User Configuration Manager that allows users to manage their settings such as theme, language, and notifications. You will implement functions to add, update, delete, and view user settings.

**Objective:** Fulfill the user stories below and get all the tests to pass to complete the lab.

**User Stories:**

> 1. You should define a function named `add_setting` that takes a dictionary of settings and a tuple containing a key-value pair as parameters.

Author: I have applied this style where parameters were asked in the function definition.

1. `add_setting` function should:
    
   - Unpack the tuple into a key and value.
   - Convert the key to lowercase.
   - If the key setting exists, return `Setting '[key]' already exists! Cannot add a new setting with this name.`
   - If the key setting doesn't exist, add the key-value pair to the `settings` dictionary and return `Setting '[key]' added with value '[value]' successfully!`

1. You should define a function named `update_setting` that takes a dictionary of settings and a tuple containing a key-value pair as parameters.

1. `update_setting` function should:
       
   - Unpack the tuple into a key and value.
   - Convert the key to lowercase.
   - If the key setting exists, update its value in the `settings` dictionary and return: `Setting '[key]' updated to '[value]' successfully!`
   - If the key setting doesn't exist, return `Setting '[key]' does not exist! Cannot update a non-existing setting.`

> 1. You should define a function named `delete_setting` that takes a dictionary of settings and a key as parameters.

Author: For definition we should use parameters and not arguments.

   - If the key setting exists, remove the key-value pair from `settings` and return `Setting '[key]' deleted successfully!`
   - If the key setting does not exist, return `Setting not found!`

1. You should define a function named `view_settings` that takes a dictionary of settings as argument.

1. `view_settings` function should:
   
   - Return `No settings available.` if the `settings` dictionary is empty. 
   - If the dictionary contains any settings, return them formatted as follows:

   ```md
   Current User Settings:
   Theme: dark
   Notifications: enabled
   Volume: high
   ```

1. For testing the code, you should create a dictionary named `test_settings` that would store the following user configuration preferences in this format:

   ```md
    "theme": "light",
    "language": "English",
    "notifications": "enabled"
   ```

# --hints--

You should create a dictionary named `test_settings` and add some values to it.

```js
({
    test: () => runPython(`
        length = len(test_settings)
        assert length > 0
    `)
})
```

You should define a function named `add_setting`.

```js
({ test: () => assert(runPython(`_Node(_code).has_function("add_setting")`)) })
```

> The `add_setting` function should take two parameters.

Author: We are talking about the function definition, it should remain parameters.

    `)
})
```

`add_setting({'theme': 'light'}, ('THEME': 'dark'))` should return the error message `Setting 'theme' already exists! Cannot add a new setting with this name.`.

```js
({
    test: () => runPython(`
        settings_in_test = {"theme": "light", "language": "English"}
        result = add_setting(settings_in_test, ("THEME", "dark"))
        expected_msg = "Setting 'theme' already exists! Cannot add a new setting with this name."
        assert result == expected_msg
    `)
})
```

`add_setting({"theme": "light"}, ('volume', 'high')` should add a new key-value pair and return the success message `Setting 'volume' added with value 'high' successfully!`.

```js
({
    test: () => runPython(`
        settings_in_test = {"theme": "light"}
        result = add_setting(settings_in_test, ("volume", "high"))
        expected_msg = "Setting 'volume' added with value 'high' successfully!"
        assert result == expected_msg
        assert settings_in_test["volume"] == "high"
    `)
})
```

You should define a function named `update_setting`.

```js
({
    test: () => runPython(`
        assert _Node(_code).has_function('update_setting')
    `)
})
```

> The `update_setting` function should take two parameters.

Author: We are talking about the function definition, it should remain parameters.

    `)
})
```

`update_setting({ "theme": "light"}, ("theme", "dark"))` should update an existing key and return the success message `Setting 'theme' updated to 'dark' successfully!`.

```js
({
    test: () => runPython(`
        settings_in_test = {"theme": "light", "language": "English"}
        result = update_setting(settings_in_test, ("theme", "dark"))
        expected_msg = "Setting 'theme' updated to 'dark' successfully!"
        assert result == expected_msg
        assert settings_in_test["theme"] == "dark"
    `)
})
```

`update_setting({"theme": "light"}, ("volume", "high"))` should return the error message `Setting 'volume' does not exist! Cannot update a non-existing setting.` when the key doesn't exist.

```js
({
    test: () => runPython(`
        settings_in_test = {"theme": "light"}
        result = update_setting(settings_in_test, ("volume", "high"))
        expected_msg = "Setting 'volume' does not exist! Cannot update a non-existing setting."
        assert result == expected_msg
    `)
})
```

You should define a function named `delete_setting`.

```js
({
    test: () => runPython(`
        assert _Node(_code).has_function('delete_setting')
    `)
})
```

> The `delete_setting` function should take two parameters.

Author: We are talking about the function definition, it should remain parameters.

        result = delete_setting(settings_in_test, "THEME")
        assert "theme" not in settings_in_test
        assert "THEME" not in settings_in_test
    `)
})
```

`delete_setting({"theme": "light"}, "theme")` should remove the existing key and return the success message `Setting 'theme' deleted successfully!`.

```js
({
    test: () => runPython(`
        settings_in_test = {"theme": "light", "language": "English"}
        result = delete_setting(settings_in_test, "theme")
        expected_msg = "Setting 'theme' deleted successfully!"
        assert result == expected_msg
        assert "theme" not in settings_in_test
    `)
})
```

`delete_setting` should return the error message `Setting not found!` when the key doesn't exist.

```js
({
    test: () => runPython(`
        settings_in_test = {"theme": "light"}
        result = delete_setting(settings_in_test, "volume")
        expected_msg = "Setting not found!"
        assert result == expected_msg
    `)
})
```

You should define a function named `view_settings`.

```js
({
    test: () => runPython(`
        assert _Node(_code).has_function('view_settings')
    `)
})
```

> The `view_settings` function should take one parameter.

Author: We are talking about the function definition, it should remain parameters.

        expected_msg = "No settings available."
        assert result == expected_msg
    `)
})
```

`view_settings` should return formatted settings for non-empty dictionary.

```js
({
    test: () => runPython(`
        settings_in_test = {"theme": "dark", "notifications": "enabled", "volume": "high"}
        result = view_settings(settings_in_test)
        assert result.startswith("Current User Settings:")
        assert "Theme: dark" in result
        assert "Notifications: enabled" in result
        assert "Volume: high" in result
    `)
})
```

`view_settings` should capitalize the first letter of each setting name.

```js
({
    test: () => runPython(`
        settings_in_test = {"theme": "dark", "volume": "high"}
        result = view_settings(settings_in_test)
        assert "Theme:" in result
        assert "Volume:" in result
        assert "theme:" not in result
        assert "volume:" not in result
    `)
})
```

`view_settings` should display the correct results.

```js
({
    test: () => runPython(`
        settings_in_test = {"theme": "light", "language": "English", "notifications": "enabled"}
        result = view_settings(settings_in_test)

>         assert result == "Current User Settings:\\nTheme: light\\nLanguage: English\\nNotifications: enabled\\n"

Reviewer: The final newline character doesn't seem to be included in the example output. We should either remove it or say explicitly that is required.
